# Python LAMBDA Function

- [Using LAMBDA]()
- [What are lambda functions in Python ?](#what-are-lambda-functions-in-Python-?)
- [How to use `lambda` functions in Python? SYNTAX](#range-with-only-stop-parameter)
- [Examples of `lambda` function in Python](#range-with-step-parameter)
- [More Uses of `lambda` function in Python](#programming-task)
---

## Using `lambda`
Lambda functions are also referred to as ANANYMOUS functions (without name). In this file you will learn what they are, their syntax and how o use them
```python
lambda argument(s) : expression
```

**Syntax example**
```
x = lambda a : a + 10
```

The `lambda` function can ake ANY nummberof arguments. Here a, was the single argument.


**Trial example**
```
print(x(5))
```
**output**
```
5
```
>**Notes:**
>- A lambda function is a small anonymous function.

>- A lambda function can take any number of arguments, but can only have one expression.

>- Lambda functions can be used to return function objects.
>- Syntactically, lambda functions are restricted to only a single expression

---

## What are lambda functions in Python ?

In Python, a lambda function is a single-line function declared with no name, which can have any number of arguments, but it can only have one expression. Such a function is capable of behaving similarly to a regular function declared using the Python's def keyword.
For example,

```python
remainder = lambda num: num % 2

print(remainder(5))
```

**Output**

```
1
```

---

## How to use lambda function in Python? SYNTAX

In our examples up to now, we have passed one parameter to the `lambda` function:
- `num` - after the keyword `lambda`
- `:` - a semi-colon is in the SYNTAX after which the single expression needs to be defined


```python
result = range(11)

result = list(result)
print(result)
```

**Output**

```
[0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10]
```

To iterate a loop 5 times we can now simply use:

```python
for value in range(5):
    print(value)
```

**Output**

```
0
1
2
3
4
```

---

## `range()` with `step` Parameter

By default, the difference between two consecutive numbers in the sequence is `1`.

For example,

```python
result = list(range(1, 11))
print(result)
```

**Output**

```
[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10]
```

It is because the default value of the `step` parameter of the `range()` function is `1`. The above code is equivalent to:

```python
result = list(range(1, 11, 1))
print(result)
```

If we change the `step` argument to 3:

```python
result = list(range(1, 11, 3))
print(result)
```

**Output**
```
[1, 4, 7, 10]
```
---

We can also use negative numbers in the range function:

```python
result = list(range(5, -6, -1))
print(result)
```

**Output**

```
[5, 4, 3, 2, 1, 0, -1, -2, -3, -4, -5]
```

>**Note:** `range()` only works for integers. We cannot use floating-point numbers inside the `range()` function.

---

## Programming Task

**Can you create the following list using the range function?**
```
[3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, 21, 24, 27, 30]
```

```python
sequence = range(3, 31, 3)

print(list(sequence))
```

**Output**
```
[3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, 21, 24, 27, 30]
```
